---
layout: post
title: BattlEye Stuffs
---

[BattlEye](https://battleye.com) is a private anti-cheat used by around 30 games. It protects the client with three layers of protection, and manages it all with a module run on the gameserver (BEServer) which talks to the master network (BEMaster).


## BEService Checks

Upon startup, BEService will call NtQuerySystemInformation twice to check if codesign validation is enabled and to check if kernel debugging is enabled. A simple hook is enough to bypass these and play protected games with testsigned drivers loaded.

BEService provides the pid of the unprotected game to BEDaisy, who then kills it and restarts it under its protection.

After that BEService is consulted for every image load, which it uses a whitelist to accept only certain signatures.

BEService acts as the man in the middle for communications between BEClient and BEDaisy.

## BEDaisy Minifilter

BEDaisy registers a callback for IRP_MJ_ACQUIRE_FOR_SECTION_SYNCHRONIZATION via FltRegisterFilter.
The smart ones who read this will see several ways you could combat the image validation checks. 

{% highlight c linenos %}
NTSTATUS battleye_AcquireForSectionSynchronizationIrp(FLT_CALLBACK_DATA* data) {
    if (FltGetRequestorProcess(data) == battleye_protected_process) {
        // why the fuck????
        if (battleye_protected_process) {
            FLT_IO_PARAMETER_BLOCK* iopb = data->Iopb;
            if ((iopb->Parameters.Read.Length == 1) && (iopb->Parameters.AcquireForSectionSynchronization.PageProtection & PAGE_EXECUTE)) {
                // idk why this is here
                HANDLE curthread = PsGetCurrentThreadId();

                // again what the fuck???
                if (battleye_protected_process) {
                    LARGE_INTEGER offset = { .QuadPart = 0 };
                    unsigned long read_data = 0;
                    ULONG bytes_read = 0;
                    if (NT_SUCCESS(FltReadFile(iopb->TargetInstance, iopb->TargetFileObject, &offset, 2, &read_data, FLTFL_IO_OPERATION_DO_NOT_UPDATE_BYTE_OFFSET, &bytes_read, NULL, NULL))) {
                        if (bytes_read == 2 && read_data == IMAGE_DOS_SIGNATURE) {
                            OBJECT_NAME_INFORMATION* obj_name_info = NULL;
                            if (NT_SUCCESS(IoQueryFileDosDeviceName(iopb->TargetFileObject, &obj_name_info))) {
                                FLT_FILE_NAME_INFORMATION* file_name_info = NULL;
                                if (NT_SUCCESS(FltGetFileNameInformation(data, 0x101, &file_name_info))) {
                                    // too much shit that I don't want to bother with, basically:
                                    // here it is a DLL
                                    // talk to beservice (remember beservice is USERMODE, this was the splendid_implanter attack)
                                    // wait for it to respond

                                    FltReleaseFileNameInformation(file_name_info);
                                    if (!client_response.is_allowed) {
                                        // block section map
                                        data->IoStatus.Status = STATUS_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES;
                                        return FLT_PREOP_COMPLETE;
                                    }
                                } else { 
                                    // block section map
                                    data->IoStatus.Status = STATUS_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES;
                                    return FLT_PREOP_COMPLETE;
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    } else { // !NT_SUCCESS(FltReadFile(...))
                        // block section map
                        data->IoStatus.Status = STATUS_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES;
                        return FLT_PREOP_COMPLETE;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
    return FLT_PREOP_SUCCESS_NO_CALLBACK;
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Simple, Stupid Bypass

A simple trick I found ages ago was to swap the EPROC pointer inside BEDaisy, which would cause it to protect a different process (I targetted BEService just for fun). All image loads and handle callbacks would be unchecked as it would completely switch over to another process. BEClient should be upset about this, as it checks if battleye is protecting the right process, but it turns out BEDaisy responds with the process id which it gets and saves once during startup.
And yes that's really it, eight bytes are enough to cripple an anti-cheat. This was used in a public project for months.